I have chosen as samples the descriptions of three manuscripts on the ‘Archives et Manuscrits’ site of the Bibliothèque nationale de France. These manuscripts, BnF, fr. 1376, 1420 and 1450, contain, among other literary works in Old French, Erec et Enide, a romance poem by Chrétien de Troyes that I am working on for my PhD project. The information provided by the website mainly concerns: shelfmark, works and authors transmitted, language, library and department, dating and location, mise en page, decoration, material, number, size and numbering of sheets, hands involved in copying, ruling, binding, ex libris.  I believe that a treatment of these descriptions in XML may be useful because it allows for a more rigorous, and therefore more usable, organisation of the data, which are structured hierarchically. For instance, I will be able to compare the respective dates, localisations, contents, etc. more easily, and thus get a clearer idea of the features of the manuscript transmission. Furthermore, XML can facilitate the archiving and searching of such information, while providing broader and more immediate accessibility. This is a considerable advantage, because it enables both me and those who are interested (e.g. supervisor, colleagues) to check the progress of my work more easily and intervene, thanks to the flexibility of the language, for any notes or corrections. The use of XML at this stage of my research may prove advantageous in the perspective of the digitisation of my project, which aims to elaborate a new critical edition of Chrétien de Troyes' work: in addition to the text and the apparatus of variants, it will in fact be useful to provide information concerning the manuscript witnesses in a computerised (inter)operable manner.
